Add GeoSphere Austria Warnings documentation (#45894)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/geosphere_austria_warnings.markdown

---
title: GeoSphere Austria Warnings
description: Instructions on how to integrate official GeoSphere Austria weather warnings within Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Binary sensor
  - Sensor

>   - Weather

Author: think weather is still fitting...

- Trigger automations on specific warning types, for example closing covers on a storm warning or disabling irrigation on a rain warning.
- Show the current warning level on your dashboard.

## Prerequisites

Warnings are provided for Austrian municipalities only. The integration determines the municipality from the location of a Home Assistant [zone](/integrations/zone/), so the zone you select must be located within Austria.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

{% configuration_basic %}
Zone:
  description: The zone to monitor. Warnings are provided for the Austrian municipality at the location of this zone. Defaults to your home zone.
{% endconfiguration_basic %}

To monitor multiple municipalities, add a separate config entry for each zone. The zone of an existing entry can be changed later via reconfiguration, as long as the new zone is located in the same municipality.

## Supported functionality

### Sensors

| Sensor | Description |
| ------ | ----------- |
| Warning level | The highest severity level of all currently active warnings: `No warning`, `Yellow`, `Orange`, or `Red`. |

> | Active warnings | The number of currently active warnings. |

Author: cant see any double leading pipes?

---
title: GeoSphere Austria Warnings
description: Instructions on how to integrate official GeoSphere Austria weather warnings within Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Sensor
  - Weather
ha_release: 2026.8
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_domain: geosphere_austria_warnings
ha_config_flow: true
ha_platforms:
  - sensor
ha_integration_type: service
ha_codeowners:
  - '@tklecka'
ha_quality_scale: bronze
---

The **GeoSphere Austria Warnings** {% term integration %} provides official weather warnings issued by the Austrian national weather service [GeoSphere Austria](https://www.geosphere.at) (formerly known as ZAMG).

Warnings are published per Austrian municipality and cover storm, rain, snow, black ice, thunderstorm, heat, and cold events with the severity levels yellow, orange, and red.

Warning data is provided by GeoSphere Austria under the [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/) license.

## Use cases

- Get notified when an official weather warning is issued for your home or another location in Austria.

> - Trigger automations when the warning level rises, for example closing covers or disabling irrigation.

Reviewer: To improve clarity:
```suggestion
- Trigger automations when the warning level rises that close covers or disable irrigation, for example.
```
